# ArkServerManagerForDiscord
Allow players to use Discord to start, stop, or update ARK:Survival Evolved servers on a dedicated host without needing shell access to the host. This project interfaces with Discord, LinuxGSM and a few Bash scripts I wrote to handle in-game notifications during automatic server shutdowns, backups, and updates.  My intent is to allow players to start, stop, and force update servers as needed.

One issue we keep having is the developer of ARK:Survival Evolved will push client and server updates at varied times of day.  LinuxGSM does not always catch some server updates via Steam.  I'm not sure why but maybe sometimes the build number LinuxGSM utilizes does not update properly in the Steam servers.  In any case I have seen LinuxGSM not do an update when there was update available.  My current scripts run force update instead of letting LinuxGSM test for updates, however my servers only check for updates once per day.  When an update happens mid-day, frequently players cannot join the server until the next scheduled force update or I intervene.  I would like players to be able to request the server update itself without admin intervention.

We have about 4-6 players on our servers.  Each server is running a different map.  Players typically spend time focused on one map.  Every few months, they switch to a different map.  Tamed creatures on untended servers will die off because Ark continues running its simulation even with no players.  If one or more players want to hop to a map that is not running, it currently requires admin intervention.  I wish to allow players to start and stop servers on their own.

I would like to check via RCON prior to stopping servers to make sure no players are connected before the server is stopped to prevent trolling.  This feature could be expanded to automatically stop a server if no players have connected in a certain period of time. Neither feature has been implemented at this time.
